well howdy there internet people is Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about a question from a fifteen-year-old
and when you post it in the comments I
have what a question dad why does the US
government want two countries to be
democratic I thought people have to want
it you can't give it or force it it's a
great question it is a great question at
15 years old you are asking a question
that adults don't normally ask you're
right you're absolutely right democracy
is advanced citizenship man it's hard
you gotta want it you've got to want it
you've got to educate yourself you've
got to be involved doesn't seem like
something you can force on people it
seems like something that has to be
ground
the thing is we have the greatest war
machine that has ever been on this
planet and we've been spreading
democracy for a really long time right
you think I'd make a mistake see you're
there you're there so close you can see
this giant gaping hole in this narrative
in this story that you've been told but
you got to step through the question
isn't why do we do it question is do we
do it or is it just a story just an idea
just something we tell people your age
so they believe it when their mind
there's a guy named rich Whitney and he
did something I love love when people do
this because this is how you can find
real truth he took two authoritative
sources that didn't talk to each other
he compared them to find something out
there's an organization called Freedom
House and they put out a yearly report
and they rank countries on how free they
are Freedom House actually does try to
promote democracy they've been doing it
since 1941 their 2015 report had 49
countries that ranked a six or a seven
in political rights in English they're
dictatorships okay they're varying kinds
in some cases it's just one guy in some
cases it's a little ruling party in some
cases it's the military but they're
certainly not democracies they're not
free countries by any stretch of the
imagination
there were 49 of them
well then he went and he got US
government documents to see if we gave
military aid to any of them we getting
military aid to 36 of them almost 3/4
democracy doesn't matter if it did we
wouldn't be doing that it's a story it's
a fairy tale said justification we're
spreading democracy it's like right now
they're gonna go fight for your freedom
in Saudi Arabia how did your freedom get
there it's a story slogan if you caught
it you caught it at 15 see we have this
idea about spies you know the
intelligence officers that do this kind
of stuff engage in regime change
political realignment whatever the
buzzword of the day is and this image
says that they are all about truth
justice the American Way democracy apple
pie and knot tying and that may be true
when they first sign up but by the time
they're in a position where they're
making decisions about the fate of a
country they're very pragmatic all that
idealism is lost they care about one
thing and one thing only and that is
American interests and you will hear
that term now you'll start picking it
out when you hear the news
what does that mean means economic
interests military interest political
interests and stability because without
stability
the rest of it doesn't matter because we
are trying to maintain dominance in
those three areas so stability is
important sure I bet these guys would
love it if these countries could be
democracies and maintain all of this
other stuff but democracy is very
unpredictable and as we've talked about
in other videos intent determining
intent is what intelligence work is
about
that's stability if any of these four
things fly in the face of that country
having a democracy oh it doesn't get one
will give military aides at the
dictatorship and preserve that stability
we don't do it and you are right you
have to want it you have to want it and
that's why democracy is in retreat
democracy and retreat that is the title
of the 2019 report from Freedom House
there's a whole section on the United
States it's why democracies die because
people don't ask the question you just
did
may sound weird but you should be really
proud of yourself you really should you
are thinking at a level far beyond what
is expected of you never lose that never
lose that desire to question those
narratives because most of them have
holes you can walk through anyway it's
just the thought y'all have a good night